Author: Jože Bučar, Laboratory of Data Technologies, Faculty of Information Studies in Novo mesto, Slovenia (contact: joze.bucar@gmail.com)

Web media are credited for publishing the news. Web texts, that we required within our project, are under their copyrights, therefore they are available for non-commercial scientific and research purposes only. Research can be performed by a faculty member at an accredited academic institution (college or university) or a research institute member; wherein the research (i) does not now or in the future benefit, or does not now or in the future involve, or is not funded by, a commercial entity; and/or (ii) is not now, or in the future, subject to consulting or licensing obligations or other grant of rights to any commercial entity or third party, and (iii) will not generate any intellectual property rights for any one or more of the faculty member, academic institution, third party, or commercial entity, and (iv) the results of which will be released in the public domain by publication. If your research does not meet these criteria, please contact the author.

Through our work we support the open source community, in order to allow future researchers to contribute to (computational) linguistics community. Thus, some of our work, such as web crawlers, manual and automatic annotations of the news and a lexicon for sentiment analysis in Slovene, is publicly available under Creative Commons copyright license Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0 or newer version). This license allows others to use, distribute, reproduce, and build upon this work as long as they credit this work by clearly mentioning its author and title. Moreover, they can license their new work under the identical terms, so any derivatives will also allow commercial use. For more details, check out the information available on the website https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/.